Software engineers apply engineering principles and knowledge of programming languages to build software solutions for end users. Software engineers design and develop computer games, business applications, operating systems, network control systems, and middleware—to name just a few of the many career paths available.
Key milestones: * 1968: The first NATO Software Engineering Conference is held. * 1970s: A number of new methodologies are developed, including structured programming and object-oriented programming. * 1980s: The first computer-aided software engineering (CASE) tools are released.6 Dec 2023
A full SDLC has 7 basic stages: Planning, requirements, design and prototype, software development, testing, deployment, and maintenance. In some cases, depending on different variables (project, team, manager, etc.), certain steps can be omitted, split, or combined.
Agile is suitable for projects requiring flexibility and constant requirements changes, such as software development, where customer feedback and engagement are critical. On the other hand, Waterfall is ideal for projects with well-defined stages and straightforward, linear requirements.
Software developers design, program, build, deploy and maintain software using many different skills and tools. They also help build software systems that power networks and devices and ensure that those systems remain functional. What Software Quality Assurance Engineers and Testers Do. Design test plans, scenarios, scripts, or procedures. Document software defects, using a bug tracking system, and report defects to software developers. Identify, analyze, and document problems with program function, output, online screen, or content. What Software Quality Assurance Engineers and Testers Do. Design test plans, scenarios, scripts, or procedures. Document software defects, using a bug tracking system, and report defects to software developers. Identify, analyze, and document problems with program function, output, online screen, or content. A Project Manager in Software Development is a crucial role responsible for overseeing the planning, execution and delivery of software projects. They align project objectives with business goals, manage resources and mitigate risks
IDEs present a single program in which all development is done. This program typically provides many features for authoring, modifying, compiling, deploying and debugging software. E.g Visual Studio Code. Version control systems streamline development processes, enabling faster iteration and delivery of features. Efficient branching and merging capabilities allow developers to work concurrently on various aspects of a project without interference, significantly reducing the time from development to deployment. E.g Github.
Common Challenges Faced by Software Engineers are: The rapid advancement of technology. Increasing customer demands in the development stage. Time limitation. Limited infrastructure/ resources. Understanding the large and complex system requirements is difficult. Undefined system boundaries. Solutins are: Step 1 – Define the problem. You have to first start with problem identification. Step 2 – Analyze the problem. Now it's time to carry out problem analysis. Step 3 – Brainstorm. Step 4 – Make a decision. Step 5 – Implement. Step 6 – Evaluate
In software testing, there are four levels of testing, such as: Unit testing: This is the first level of testing that determines whether or not software components fulfill functionalities. Integration testing: This is the second level of testing that verifies data flow from one module to another.System testing, also referred to as system-level testing or system integration testing, is the process in which a quality assurance (QA) team evaluates how the various components of an application interact together in the full, integrated system or application.Acceptance testing is a quality assurance (QA) process that determines to what degree an application meets end users' approval.
Prompt engineering makes it easy for users to obtain relevant results in the first prompt. It helps mitigate bias that may be present from existing human bias in the large language models' training data. Further, it enhances the user-AI interaction so the AI understands the user's intention even with minimal input
Vague Prompt: "How do I market online?" "which site can i market online? The improved prompt is more direct and consice.